Hi everyone in today's lesson.
Continuing our blog installations we're going to be adding to contact forms to our theme.
The first one will be added in the home page sidebar and the second one will be added to the themes
contact page.
So without further ado let's get started.
There are several plugins that can be used to have forms in wordpress we can use this blog and create
from simple contact forms to more specific and more complex forms.
In our case we want to use a plug in called Contact form 7.
One of the most used in wordpress and also one of which I love to work with.
Well before you ask me why am I using a plugin to create a simple contact form.
Isn't it easier to create that using only plain page code.
Well of course it could be easier depending on your BHP skills in wordpress.
You can create just about everything but I always use a plugin in this case in the first place because
it's faster and secondly because a good plugin is going to take care of various security aspects such
as escapin strengths security tokens etc..
Since I don't want to worry about these things in all my projects I always prefer to use some kind of
plugin.
That said At school I had installed this plugin we had over two plugins add new
and they're going to search for contact form 7
lasting stole it
activated
and now we have one more thing in the dashboard menu called compact and we click here.
Your Radagast abusing exemple form.
Notice here that it has a link that allows us to edit the form and the short code that you'll be using
to insert the form into a page or into a template file.
If you click on the link you get to this page.
Here we get these four tabs.
I'll be showing you the first three of them and the first one can create the form itself adding the
fields we want and the coolest thing is that we can create fields using CML or clicking on this buttons
which makes things easier and speed up the form creation.
I'm not going to explain every single element even because everything here is quite intuitive and easy
to handle.
I suppose I want to add another text field in which the user will have to type the name of their CD.
So just make room for the text box.
For example here click here in text and enter the necessary data.
For example going to make this fuel required.
Call it city if I want a placeholder.
I enter some value here on the default value field and click here on this option.
And if later on I wish to style the field I can type in ID or a class.
OK ready.
Now just click on inserts that and make it look the same as the other fields.
I'm going to place it inside a label tag
here under mail.
We have the form submission settings as I am on a local server.
I'm going to leave everything as it is since I would need to be on a remote server if I want to make
a fool and more accurate test messages.
We can modify the error messages warnings success messages and so on before saving.
I'm going to change the name of my form to sidebar form.
This will be the form that will be displayed in the home page sidebar and I'm going to add in nature
heading tag in a paragraph explaining what is this form.
So let's save the form and we're ready to take it to the home page.
This is very easy.
Just got the discharge code and inserted in the place that we want.
In our case this form will be inserted in the home base sidebar.
Remember that in the previous sections we created two sidebars in the functions that page befoul.
Until then we have used only the second Ciber the first one was used for testing purposes only.
But enough of that.
Now let's include some meaningful content here.
Let's go ahead head over to appearance widgets and we're going to add the text we did in the first Ciber
in our case.
Let's just added the text we did.
We already had less space to form short code.
We just copy it we want to remove this title here.
Save.
And now let's see how Rufin looks like
as you can see it's working but it's a little weird.
This is happening because there is no CSSA rules in the plugin that control the width of the text fields
so it's up to us creating Surtsey says rules.
But don't worry because it's quite easy actually.
I'll be using a code snippet I found in the plugins documentation itself.
Just go ahead and open Armentieres file.
And I'll paste in that code snippet right here I'm going to change this for you here.
You 100 percent and remove these other values here because we don't need them.
By doing this my text fields text areas and other fields of view the content area.
So let's say
also is very cool.
With little we forward it have a working contact form.
That's amazing.
OK.
What they can do to make it a little better is to add placeholders to the other form fields because
we want the other views to look the same.
So let's go back and edit the form once again.
And just follow the same logic that we used for the city field.
I think I forgot the name if you.
Let's get back there.
And here we get all the fields with the same format.
OK.
Now we also need a form for the contact page.
If we open this page we see that we have only a bunch of dummy text to solve this in the fastest way
we're going to duplicate the form.
We've already created for the home page.
If it just mouseover the forms link and click HERE where Id say and duplicate Let's rename the form
and tweak the content a bit now and just say and copy the new charge called Let's go to pages and open
the contact page for editing.
Now to space the short code wherever you want in the page.
And now let's take a look at the page to see if the form is showing up.
And look the form is here the way we want it.
Excellent.
Just one more thing before we finish this lesson.
This plugin as I told you at the beginning of today's lesson is quite versatile.
You can do a lot with it.
However since one lesson is not enough for us to explain all of its features I invite you to visit the
plugins documentation.
So whenever we edit a form we have this link here on the right side that leads to the plugins documentation.
I think it's worth taking a look.
You never know when you need some support.
Well with that said we finished this lesson here and our theme is getting even more beautiful and complete.
So I hope you enjoyed it too.
And I see you in the next lesson by.